README.md, before:

# OMX-27

![Build Status](https://github.com/okyeron/OMX-27/actions/workflows/platformio-ci.yml/badge.svg)

Mechanical key switch midi keyboard and sequencer. Based on Teensy 3.2 and Cherry MX RGB key switches.

## Firmware Requirements

### Teensyduino

Install Teensyduino from the [PJRC website](https://www.pjrc.com/teensy/teensyduino.html).

In Teensyduino Library Manager - check to be sure these are installed and on the most recent versions.

__Libraries:__
Adafruit_Keypad
Adafruit_NeoPixel
Adafruit_SSD1306
Adafruit_GFX_Library
U8g2_for_Adafruit_GFX
Adafruit_FRAM_I2C

Also check to be sure MIDI Library (by Francois Best / fortyseveneffects) is updated to 5.02
I believe this is installed by default with Teensyduino

Set the following for the Teensy under the Tools menu:

__Board:  Teensy 3.2/3.1__
__USB Type: MIDI__
__CPU Speed: 120 MHz (overclock)__

### PlatformIO / VSCode

Ensure Homebrew in installed. [Instructions](https://brew.sh/)
Install PlatformIO CLI tools. [Detailed Instructions](https://platformio.org/install/cli)


```sh
# Mac OSX
brew install platformio

# check out the project
git checkout https://github.com/okyeron/OMX-27.git

# go to the project directory
cd OMX-27

# compile the project (this may take a while the first time)
pio run -t build

# upload to hardware (don't forget to push button on Teensy)
pio run -t upload

# use serial monitor for debugging
pio device monitor
```

- (optional) Install PlatformIO IDE VSCode extension. [Instructions](https://platformio.org/platformio-ide)

## BOM

[Bill of Materials](<build/BOM.md>)

## Build

[Build Guide](<build/Build-Kit.md>)

## Docs

[Documentation](<Docs.md>)

## FAQ

Q: What key switches are recommended?
A: Any RGB switches with a Cherry MX footprint can be used - I'm using Cherry MX RGB and these are linked in the [BOM](<BOM.md>). Different varieties are available (Red, Brown, etc.)

Q: Can I use other key switches?
A: Yes - as long as they have the same footprint as Cherry MX switches and a window/opening for the LED to shine through. Low profile keys like the Cherry Low Profile or Kailh Choc switches have a different footprint and will not work.

Q: What about recommended Keycaps?
A: Also listed in the [BOM](<BOM.md>). You want an MX stem cap, with translucency or a window for the LED to shine through. DSA profile caps work well.

Q: Does this project require soldering?
A: Yes. Thru-hole soldering is required along with some easy SMD (LEDs and jacks).

Q: What's with these LEDs?
A: This project uses SK6812-MINI-E reverse mount LEDs. They are somewhat hard to find, so I'll try to offer them included with kits. They are easy to solder, even if you've not done much SMD.

Q: Can I get the Gerbers or order the pcbs myself?
A: No. Not sure about open sourcing yet.

Q: Can I get some of those windowed keycaps you're using?
A: Yes.

Commit message:

add note about platformio being optional

README.md, after:

# OMX-27

![Build Status](https://github.com/okyeron/OMX-27/actions/workflows/platformio-ci.yml/badge.svg)

Mechanical key switch midi keyboard and sequencer. Based on Teensy 3.2 and Cherry MX RGB key switches.

## Firmware Requirements

### Teensyduino

Install Teensyduino from the [PJRC website](https://www.pjrc.com/teensy/teensyduino.html).

In Teensyduino Library Manager - check to be sure these are installed and on the most recent versions.

__Libraries:__
Adafruit_Keypad
Adafruit_NeoPixel
Adafruit_SSD1306
Adafruit_GFX_Library
U8g2_for_Adafruit_GFX
Adafruit_FRAM_I2C

Also check to be sure MIDI Library (by Francois Best / fortyseveneffects) is updated to 5.02
I believe this is installed by default with Teensyduino

Set the following for the Teensy under the Tools menu:

__Board:  Teensy 3.2/3.1__
__USB Type: MIDI__
__CPU Speed: 120 MHz (overclock)__

Open the sketch at `OMX-27-firmware/OMX-27-firmware.ino`, click verify to ensure it all compiles and upload to flash the firmware to the hardware, pushing the button on the Teensy first.

### PlatformIO / VSCode (optional)

Ensure Homebrew in installed. [Instructions](https://brew.sh/)
Install PlatformIO CLI tools. [Detailed Instructions](https://platformio.org/install/cli)

```sh
# Mac OSX
brew install platformio

# check out the project
git checkout https://github.com/okyeron/OMX-27.git

# go to the project directory
cd OMX-27

# compile the project (this may take a while the first time)
pio run -t build

# upload to hardware (don't forget to push button on Teensy)
pio run -t upload

# use serial monitor for debugging
pio device monitor
```

- (optional) Install PlatformIO IDE VSCode extension. [Instructions](https://platformio.org/platformio-ide)

Note: when making changes using the PlatformIO toolchain, please ensure the sketch still builds on Teensyduino before opening a PR.

## BOM

[Bill of Materials](<build/BOM.md>)

## Build

[Build Guide](<build/Build-Kit.md>)

## Docs

[Documentation](<Docs.md>)

## FAQ

Q: What key switches are recommended?
A: Any RGB switches with a Cherry MX footprint can be used - I'm using Cherry MX RGB and these are linked in the [BOM](<BOM.md>). Different varieties are available (Red, Brown, etc.)

Q: Can I use other key switches?
A: Yes - as long as they have the same footprint as Cherry MX switches and a window/opening for the LED to shine through. Low profile keys like the Cherry Low Profile or Kailh Choc switches have a different footprint and will not work.

Q: What about recommended Keycaps?
A: Also listed in the [BOM](<BOM.md>). You want an MX stem cap, with translucency or a window for the LED to shine through. DSA profile caps work well.

Q: Does this project require soldering?
A: Yes. Thru-hole soldering is required along with some easy SMD (LEDs and jacks).

Q: What's with these LEDs?
A: This project uses SK6812-MINI-E reverse mount LEDs. They are somewhat hard to find, so I'll try to offer them included with kits. They are easy to solder, even if you've not done much SMD.

Q: Can I get the Gerbers or order the pcbs myself?
A: No. Not sure about open sourcing yet.

Q: Can I get some of those windowed keycaps you're using?
A: Yes.
